[wip]Migrating from Windows PowerShell 5.1 to PowerShell 7 (#5570)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/docs-conceptual/whats-new/Migrating-from-Windows-PowerShell-51-to-PowerShell-7.md

> of `pwsh` under the 7-preview directory.

For more information about [installing PowerShell 7](https://aka.ms/install-PowerShell).

## Modules and Module paths

PowerShell 7 on Microsoft Windows combines the Windows PowerShell Module paths and the new
PowerShell 7 paths to provide autoloading of both Core and Desktop modules. By default, Windows
PowerShell and PowerShell 7 have different `$Env:PSModulePath` values except for
`%WINDIR%\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules` module path which is shared by both.

`$Env:PSModulePath` stores the paths to the default module directories. When importing a module,
PowerShell checks the specified directories when a full path to the module is not specified. When
starting a version of PowerShell, the `$Env:PSModulePath` reflects the module search path and only
includes path segments appropriate for the version of PowerShell being started.

> [!NOTE]
> PowerShell sets the value of `$PSHOME\Modules` in the registry. It sets the value of
> `$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Modules` each time you start PowerShell.

The default value of Windows PowerShell `$Env:PSModulePath` on Windows is:

```powershell

> $nv:PSModulePath -split (';')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$env:PSModulePath -split (';')
```

PowerShell 7 currently supports the following operating systems on x64, including:

- Windows 8.1, and 10
- Windows Server 2012, 2012 R2, 2016, and 2019
- macOS 10.13+
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) / CentOS 7
- Fedora 30+
- Debian 9
- Ubuntu LTS 16.04+
- Alpine Linux 3.8+

Additionally, PowerShell 7.0 supports ARM32 and ARM64 flavors of Debian, Ubuntu, and ARM64 Alpine
Linux.

> [!NOTE]
> Debian 10 and CentOS 8 currently do not support WinRM remoting. For details on setting up
> SSH-based remoting, see
> [PowerShell Remoting over SSH](/powershell/scripting/learn/remoting/ssh-remoting-in-powershell-core?view=powershell-7).

For more up-to-date information about supported operating systems and support lifecycle, see the
[PowerShell Support Lifecycle](/powershell/scripting/powershell-support-lifecycle?view=powershell-7).

## How do I install PowerShell 7?

To support the needs and flexibility requirements of the IT, DevOps and Development, there are
several options for obtaining methods PowerShell 7. Choose the option that best suits your needs.

To get PowerShell 7 on your Windows 10 laptop, open the Microsoft Store and enter **PowerShell 7**

> in the search bar. This will use an MSIX package to install PowerShell 7.

Author: Corrected language - leaving open for discussion. @Joey may have comments

If you already have experience installing PowerShell Core or one of the previews, or need to deploy
PowerShell 7 to servers, get the binary (.zip, .msi, .deb, .rpm) for your operating system. You can
download the binaries from the
[GitHub Release page](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/releases).

If this is your first time installing PowerShell, check the installation instructions for your
preferred operating system:

[Windows](/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-core-on-windows?view=powershell-7),
[macOS](/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-core-on-macos?view=powershell-7),
or
[Linux](/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-core-on-linux?view=powershell-7).

While not officially supported, the community has also provided packages for

> [Arch](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/powershell/) and Kali Linux.

Author: It is intended for Windows users to upgrade - the reason I left in here was to support those that want to use Mac or linux.  If we think its too much for this article, can remove and put in single link like aka.ms/install-powershell -- or remove entirely.

Additionally, you may want to use one of our many Docker container images. For more information, see
[PowerShell-Docker](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-powershell) repo.

## Running PowerShell 7

PowerShell 7 installs in a new directory on Microsoft Windows to permit side-by-side execution with
Windows PowerShell 5.1. The new installation directory is added to your path allowing you to execute
both Windows PowerShell and PowerShell 7. If your migrating from PowerShell Core 6.x to PowerShell
7, the installation is upgraded and the path replaced.

PowerShell 7 installation path is added to Microsoft Windows:

- Windows PowerShell 5.1 : `C:\Windows\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0` will add
`%programfiles%\PowerShell\7`

> PowerShell 7 will upgrade previous versions of PowerShell Core 6.x:

Author: I do want it here - many folks ran 6 core on windows - but I did add a link to the  install docs.

PowerShell, to provide easy importing of both Core and Desktop modules. By default, Windows
PowerShell and PowerShell 7 have different `$Env:PSModulePath` values except for
`%WINDIR%\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules` module path which is shared by both.

`$Env:PSModulePath` stores the paths to the default module directories. When importing a module,
PowerShell checks the specified directories when a full path to the module is not specified. When
starting a version of PowerShell, the `$Env:PSModulePath` reflects the module search path and only
includes path segments appropriate for the version of PowerShell being started.

> [!NOTE]
> PowerShell sets the value of `$PSHOME\Modules` in the registry. It sets the value of
> `$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Modules` each time you start PowerShell.

The default value of Windows PowerShell `$Env:PSModulePath` on Windows is:

```powershell
$nv:PSModulePath -split (';')
```

```output
C:\Users\<user>\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\WINDOWS\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules
```

The default value of PowerShell 7 `$Env:PSModulePath` on Windows combines the Windows PowerShell

> paths and the PowerShell 7 paths to provide autoloading of modules:

Author: agreed...touched up para to reflect.

$nv:PSModulePath -split (';')
```

```output
C:\Users\<user>\Documents\PowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\PowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\PowerShell\7\Modules
C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\WINDOWS\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules
```

> [!NOTE]
> PowerShell 7 on Windows adds the module path for Windows PowerShell to permit the
> autoloading of modules from Windows PowerShell.

### Starting Windows PowerShell from PowerShell 7

PowerShell 7 on Microsoft Windows combines new module path locations needed for PowerShell 7 with
those from Windows PowerShell to provide easy importing of both Core and Desktop modules. This
includes adding or removing additional module paths created by applications or the user. When
running Windows PowerShell from PowerShell 7, only the paths needed for Windows PowerShell modules
are added.

PowerShell 7 path on Windows before starting Windows PowerShell:

```powershell
$nv:PSModulePath -split (';')
```

```output
C:\Users\<user>\Documents\PowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\PowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\PowerShell\7\Modules
C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\WINDOWS\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules

> ```

Author: Removed redundant part. I'm still leaning to having it as I saw questions about this on twitter.

> the path.

For more information, see `PSModulePath` in [about_Environment_Variables](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_environment_variables?view=powershell-7)

for more information about Modules, see [about_Modules](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs/blob/staging/reference/7.0/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Modules.md)

## Where is the ISE (Integrated Scripting Environment)?

The Windows PowerShell Integrated Scripting Environment (ISE) is only available in Windows
PowerShell. To support the growing needs of the automation and scripting community, along with
DevOps and developers, we recommend [Visual Studio Code (VSCode)](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
and the [PowerShell Extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/powershell) for writing
and debugging scripts and modules.

To make the transition from the **ISE** to **VSCode** smoother, a new option **Enable ISE Mode** is
available in the the Command Palette to switch **VSCode** into an **ISE** style layout. By
transitioning to **VSCode** and the new **ISE** layout, you will continue to get all the new

> features and capabilities of PowerShell in a familiar scripting tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make the transition to VSCode easier, use the **Enable ISE Mode** function available in the the Command Palette. This function switches VSCode into an ISE-style layout. The ISE-layout gives you all the new features and capabilities of PowerShell in a familiar user experience.
```

To switch between the default layout and the new ISE layout, press;

> <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>P</kbd>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd>
```

Type and select: **PowerShell:Enable ISE Mode**

To set the layout to the original VSCode layout, open the Command Palette, type and select
**PowerShell: Disable ISE Mode (restore to defaults)**

For details about customizing the VSCode layout to ISE, see

> [How to Replicate the ISE Experience in Visual Studio Code](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/components/vscode/how-to-replicate-the-ise-experience-in-vscode?view=powershell-7)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[How to Replicate the ISE Experience in Visual Studio Code](/powershell/scripting/components/vscode/how-to-replicate-the-ise-experience-in-vscode)
```

> [!NOTE]
> The PowerShell Team and partners are actively working to improve the scripting experience in the
> PowerShell extension for VSCode. We currently have no plans to update the ISE with new features
> going forward. In the latest versions of Windows 10 and Windows Server, the ISE is now a

> > user-uninstallable feature, but this does not signal any plans to make it unavailable in the  future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> The PowerShell Team and its partners are actively working to improve the scripting experience in the
> PowerShell extension for VSCode. We currently have no plans to update the ISE with new features.
> In the latest versions of Windows 10 and Windows Server, the ISE is a
> user-uninstallable feature. We have no plans to make the ISE unavailable in the  future.
```

SSH remoting creates a PowerShell host process on the target computer as an SSH subsystem. For
details and examples on setting up Windows or Linux for SSH-based remoting, see:
[PowerShell Remoting over SSH](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/learn/remoting/ssh-remoting-in-powershell-core?view=powershell-7).

The `New-PSSession`, `Enter-PSSession`, and `Invoke-Command` cmdlets now have a new parameter set to
support this new remoting connection.

```powershell
[-HostName <string>]  [-UserName <string>]  [-KeyFilePath <string>]
```

To create a remote session, specify the target computer with the **HostName** parameter and provide
the user name with **UserName**. When running the cmdlets interactively, you're prompted for a
password.

```powershell
Enter-PSSession -HostName <Computer> -UserName <Username>
```

Alternatively, When using the **HostName** parameter, provide the username information followed by
the **@** sign, followed by the computer name.

```powershell
Enter-PSSession -HostName <Username>@<Computer>
```

You may setup **SSH** key authentication using a private key file with the KeyFilePath parameter.
For more information, see;

> [OpenSSH Key Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows-server/administration/openssh/openssh_keymanagement).

Reviewer 2: The article ends kind of abruptly. Should we add a "call to action" or "next steps".

---
title: Migrating from Windows PowerShell 5.1 to PowerShell 7
description: Migrate to PowerShell 7 with these helpful notes
ms.date: 03/25/2020
---

# Migrating from Windows PowerShell 5.1 to PowerShell 7

PowerShell 7 is a cross-platform (Windows, Linux, and macOS) automation tool and configuration
framework optimized for dealing with structured data, REST APIs, and object models. PowerShell
includes a command-line shell, object-oriented scripting language, and a set of tools for executing
scripts/cmdlets and managing modules. Designed for Cloud, Hybrid-Cloud and on-premises, the latest

> release of PowerShell is packed with performance enhancements and features over previous versions.

Reviewer 3: I think we should highlight the side-by-side nature of 5.1 and 7 early on and how safe it is to deploy over time

Migrate with minimal investment time and lower the risk of failure. PowerShell 7 is designed to work
fully side-by-side with Windows PowerShell letting you easily and quickly test and compare before
deployment.

## PowerShell 7 Supported on Windows

> PowerShell 7 is ready to deploy for Microsoft Windows client and server operating systems.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we should highlight that a reboot is not needed unlike WMF which was a major pain point.

PowerShell 7 is supported on the following Windows operating systems:

- Windows 8.1, and 10
- Windows Server 2012, 2012 R2, 2016, and 2019

For more information about the supported operating systems and support lifecycle, see the
[PowerShell Support Lifecycle](/powershell/scripting/powershell-support-lifecycle?view=powershell-7).

## Installing PowerShell 7?

To support the needs and flexibility requirements of IT, DevOps and Development, there are several
options for installing PowerShell 7. For most administrators working with Windows client or server,
you can reduce the installation options to the two below:

1. To install PowerShell 7 on your Windows client 8.1/10 computer, open the Microsoft Store and

>    enter `PowerShell 7` in the search bar.

Reviewer 3: We can give a direct app link once it's published

2. To deploy to Windows Server, get the binary **.msi** or **.zip** package. You can download the
   packages from [GitHub Release page](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/releases).

> [!NOTE]

> > The **.msi** package is updated and supported with management products such as Microsoft

Reviewer 2: I think that linking to that information is out of scope for this article. You can deploy with lots of other tools beside SCCM. The intent of this article is to help the more novice user adopt PS7. Someone deploying with SCCM either knows how to do that or will not be looking in this doc for that information.

> System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)

> For details on installing PowerShell 7 on Windows, macOS or Linux, see [Installing PowerShell](https://aka.ms/Get-PowerShell)

Reviewer 2: Fixed

## Running PowerShell 7

PowerShell 7 installs in a new directory on Microsoft Windows to permit side-by-side execution with
Windows PowerShell 5.1. The new installation directory is added to your path allowing you to execute
both Windows PowerShell and PowerShell 7. If your migrating from PowerShell Core 6.x to PowerShell
7, the installation is upgraded and the path replaced.

PowerShell 7 installation path is added to Microsoft Windows:

- Windows PowerShell 5.1 : `C:\Windows\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0` will add
`%programfiles%\PowerShell\7`

- PowerShell Core 6.x on Windows: `%programfiles%\PowerShell\6` is upgraded to
 `%programfiles%\PowerShell\7`

In Windows PowerShell, the executable to launch PowerShell is named `powershell.exe`. In version 6
and above, the executable is changed to support side-by-side execution. The new executable to launch

> PowerShell 7 is `pwsh.exe`. Preview builds will remain in-place as `pwsh-preview` instead of `pwsh`

Reviewer 3: If this topic is targeting existing WinPS5.1 users, I think mentioning the preview release will cause confusion.  Might be better not to have it here.

Reviewer 2: I agree. We cover it in the install docs. We don't need to mention it here.

> under the 7-preview directory.

Reviewer 2: This article should focus on migration for the PS5.1 user. Not the PS7-preview user. We don't need to discuss preview at all in this article. We cover that in other articles. If the reader has been using PS7-preview then they already know about this.

> ## Modules and Module paths

Reviewer 3: Consider a table highlighting the aspects that make pwsh and powershell side-by-side:

- executable name
- psmodulepaths
- group policy
- event logs

Then go into detail about each one

> [!NOTE]
> PowerShell sets the value of `$PSHOME\Modules` in the registry. It sets the value of
> `$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Modules` each time you start PowerShell.

The default value of Windows PowerShell `$Env:PSModulePath` on Windows is:

```powershell
$nv:PSModulePath -split (';')
```

```output
C:\Users\<user>\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\WINDOWS\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules
```

The default value of PowerShell 7 `$Env:PSModulePath` on Windows combines the Windows PowerShell
paths and the PowerShell 7 paths to provide autoloading of modules:

```powershell
$nv:PSModulePath -split (';')
```

```output
C:\Users\<user>\Documents\PowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\PowerShell\Modules
C:\Program Files\PowerShell\7\Modules
C:\Program Files\WindowsPowerShell\Modules
C:\WINDOWS\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules
```

> [!NOTE]
> Additional paths may exist if the user has added custom modules or applications that
> impact the path. You will notice additional paths if a user has modified the path through the
> registry or **Environment Variables** in **System Settings**.

> For more information, see `PSModulePath` in [about_Environment_Variables](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_environment_variables?view=powershell-7)

Reviewer 3: You can deep link it to https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_environment_variables?view=powershell-7#environment-variables-that-store-preferences

> for more information about Modules, see [about_Modules](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs/blob/staging/reference/7.0/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Modules.md)

Reviewer 2: Don't link to the file in GitHub. Link to the docs at:

/powershell/module/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Modules

## What Windows PowerShell 5.1 Modules are compatible with PowerShell 7?

Most of the modules you experience in Windows PowerShell 5.1 already work with PowerShell 7, including:

- Azure PowerShell (Az.*)
- Active Directory
- Many of the modules in Windows 10 and Windows Server (check with `Get-Module -ListAvailable`)

For the current list of supported modules, see [PowerShell 7 module compatability](/powershell/scripting/whats-new/module-compatibility?view=powershell-7).

[!NOTE]
> On Windows, we've also added a **UseWindowsPowerShell** switch to Import-Module to ease the
> transition to PowerShell 7 for those using incompatible modules. This switch creates a proxy
> module in PowerShell 7 that uses a local Windows PowerShell process to implicitly run any cmdlets
> contained in that module. For more information on this functionality, check out the Import-Module
> documentation.

For those modules still incompatible, we're working with a number of teams to add native PowerShell
7 support, including Microsoft Graph, Office 365, and more.

Azure Cloud Shell has already been updated to use PowerShell 7, and others like the .NET Core SDK

> Docker container images and Azure Functions will be updated soon.

Reviewer: This doesn't really answer the question posed in the heading. (If I did that in my blog, sorry...) This might even just be a benefit you want to list up top "services like Cloud Shell are already using 7.0, and something something you're gonna want the same version to author with on your dev box"

> ## Where is the ISE (Integrated Scripting Environment)?

Reviewer: I'd go with the leading question here:

```suggestion
## What should I be using instead of the ISE (Integrated Scripting Environment) for PowerShell 7 authoring?
```

The Windows PowerShell Integrated Scripting Environment (ISE) is only supported in Windows
PowerShell. To support the growing needs of the automation and scripting community, along with

> DevOps and developers, we recommend [Visual Studio Code (VSCode)](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

Reviewer 3: It may be worth mentioning that VSCode is much more powerful and capable than ISE so that people see it as an upgrade and not a lateral move to a new tool

and the [PowerShell Extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/powershell) for writing
and debugging scripts and modules.

To make the transition to Visual Studio Code easier, use the **Enable ISE Mode** function available

> in the the Command Palette. This function switches VSCode into an ISE-style layout. The ISE-style

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the Command Palette. This function switches VSCode into an ISE-style layout. The ISE-style
```

layout give you all the new features and capabilities of PowerShell in a familiar user experience.

To switch between the default layout and the new ISE layout, press;

+ <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd>

> Type and select: **PowerShell:Enable ISE Mode**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type and select: **PowerShell: Enable ISE Mode**
```

To set the layout to the original VSCode layout, open the Command Palette, type and select
**PowerShell: Disable ISE Mode (restore to defaults)**

For details about customizing the VSCode layout to ISE, see
[How to Replicate the ISE Experience in Visual Studio Code](/powershell/scripting/components/vscode/how-to-replicate-the-ise-experience-in-vscode)

> [!NOTE]
> The PowerShell Team and its partners are actively working to improve the scripting
> experience in the PowerShell extension for VSCode. We currently have no plans to update the ISE
> with new features. In the latest versions of Windows 10 and Windows Server, the ISE is now a

> > user-uninstallable feature. We have no plans to make the ISE unavailable in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> user-uninstallable feature. We have no plans to remove the ISE in the future.
```

## Profiles

A PowerShell profile is a script that executes when PowerShell starts. You can use the profile as a

> logon script to customize the environment. You can add commands, aliases, functions, variables,

Reviewer: Only take this one if @sdwheeler says it's the right language. I just haven't seen/heard "logon script" in a very long while. 

```suggestion
login script to customize the environment. You can add commands, aliases, functions, variables,
```

Reviewer 2: The correct term is "logon script". That matches the UI in Windows.

snap-ins, modules, and PowerShell drives. You can also add other session-specific elements to your
profile so they are available in every session without having to import or re-create them. Profiles
don't exist until you create them.

The path to the location of the profile has changed in PowerShell 7 and is reflected in the variable

> **$PROFILE**. In Windows PowerShell 5.1, the location of the path and the name of the profile is

Reviewer: I'd just break this up to give the content some readability symmetry. 

```suggestion
**$PROFILE**. 

In Windows PowerShell 5.1, the location of the path and the name of the profile is
```

`$HOME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1`.

In PowerShell 7 the path has been changed to reflect the change in the product name from
`Windows PowerShell` to `PowerShell` and is
`$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1`.

For more information about
[Profiles](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_profiles?view=powershell-7).

> 

Reviewer: We should probably add the other paths here as well. (User-specific, host-specific, etc.)

## PowerShell Remoting

PowerShell remoting lets you run any PowerShell command on one or more remote computers. You can
establish persistent connections, start interactive sessions, and run scripts on remote computers.

> ### WS-Management remoting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### WS-Management (WSMan/WinRM) remoting
```

> Windows PowerShell 5.1 and below use the `WS-Management` protocol for connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Windows PowerShell 5.1 and below use the `WS-Management (WSMan)` protocol for connection
```

negotiation and data transport. If remoting has been
enabled, installing PowerShell 7 will use the existing **WinRM** configuration.

> [!NOTE]
> PowerShell 7 will use the existing Windows PowerShell 5.1 endpoint for remoting
> connections. To update PowerShell 7 to include it own endpoint, run the

> > `Install-PowerShellRemoting.ps1` located in **$PSHOME**. For information about connecting to

Reviewer 3: We should tell people to run `Enable-PSRemoting` from within PS7 to setup the endpoint rather than using the script which was really specifically for Nano where you needed to setup the PSCore endpoint from WinPS

> specific endpoints, see

> > [WS-Management Remoting in PowerShell Core](/powershell/scripting/learn/remoting/wsman-remoting-in-powershell-core?view=powershell-7)

Reviewer: Let's give people the guidance on how to do this in this doc. What's the PS7 default remoting endpoint, and how do I use to Invoke-Command and New/Enter-PSSession against it? What about the version-specific WinRM endpoints (I think microsoft.powershell.7? Something like that?

To use Windows PowerShell remoting, the remote computer must be configured for remote management.
For more information, including instructions, see
[About Remote Requirements](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_remote_requirements?view=powershell-7).

For more information about working with remoting, see [About Remote](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_remote?view=powershell-7)

### SSH-based remoting

Starting with PowerShell Core 6.x to include cross-platform operating systems that can't use a
Windows native components like **WinRM**, **SSH-based** remoting is now available to support

> cross-platform management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with PowerShell Core 6.0, **SSH-based** remoting was added to support cross-platform management
on operating systems that don't support Windows native components like **WinRM**.
```

> [!NOTE]
> The PowerShell Gallery (PSGallery) contains a module and cmdlet that will automatically
> configure **SSH-based** remoting. You can install the `Microsoft.PowerShell.RemotingTools` module
> from
> [PSGallery](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Microsoft.PowerShell.RemotingTools/0.1.0) >
> and execute the `Enable-SSH` cmdlet.

The `New-PSSession`, `Enter-PSSession`, and `Invoke-Command` cmdlets now have a new parameter set to
support this new remoting connection.

```powershell
[-HostName <string>]  [-UserName <string>]  [-KeyFilePath <string>]
```

To create a remote session, specify the target computer with the **HostName** parameter and provide
the user name with **UserName**. When running the cmdlets interactively, you're prompted for a
password.

```powershell
Enter-PSSession -HostName <Computer> -UserName <Username>
```

Alternatively, When using the **HostName** parameter, provide the username information followed by
the **@** sign, followed by the computer name.

```powershell
Enter-PSSession -HostName <Username>@<Computer>
```

You may setup **SSH** key authentication using a private key file with the KeyFilePath parameter.

> For more information, see;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see
```

> [OpenSSH Key Management](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows-server/administration/openssh/openssh_keymanagement).

Reviewer: It's not a blog, but it probably still needs a sign-off of some kind. Idk how @sdwheeler feels about call-to-action type stuff in docs, but it might be worthwhile to mention this is a living doc, and that we plan to add some stuff (and maybe that folks should file issues for what they still need?)

Also, might be a larger endeavor, wouldn't necessarily block the publishing of this on it, but some guidance on using the PSSA compat rules, as well as ApiPort for .NET-based module authors. Both of those are a little more niche (the latter moreso than the former), but I think folks looking to move from 5.1 would find it helpful. 

Also missing the cross-platform considerations for the hybrid/heterogenous admins, but I consider that a lower pri as well.

Reviewer 2: I like the call to action. I think the PSSA, ApiPort, and cross-plat topics should follow on articles from this.

- Installs and runs side-by-side with Windows PowerShell
- Improved compatibility with existing Windows PowerShell modules
- New language features, like ternary operators and `ForEach-Object -Parallel`
- Improved performance
- SSH-based remoting
- Cross-platform interoperability
- Support for Docker containers

PowerShell 7 works side-by-side with Windows PowerShell letting you easily test and compare before
deployment. Migration is simple, requiring a minimal investment of time and lower the risk of
failure.

PowerShell 7 is supported on the following Windows operating systems:

- Windows 8.1 and 10
- Windows Server 2012, 2012 R2, 2016, and 2019

PowerShell 7 also runs on macOS and several Linux distributions. For a list of supported operating
systems and information about the support lifecycle, see the
[PowerShell Support Lifecycle](/powershell/scripting/powershell-support-lifecycle).

## Installing PowerShell 7

For flexibility and to support the needs of IT, DevOps engineers, and developers, there are several
options available to install PowerShell 7. In most cases, the installation options can be reduced to
the following methods:

> - Deploy PowerShell using the [MSI package](/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-core-on-windows#installing-the-msi-package)

Reviewer 3: May be worth calling out that the MSI requires admin whereas the zip does not.

Reviewer 2: Done

- Deploy PowerShell using the [ZIP package](/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-core-on-windows#installing-the-zip-package)

> [!NOTE]
> The MSI package can be deployed and updated with management products such as Microsoft System Center
> Configuration Manager (SCCM). Download the packages from [GitHub Release page](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/releases).

## Using PowerShell 7 side-by-side with Windows PowerShell 5.1

PowerShell 7 is designed to coexist with Windows PowerShell 5.1. The following features ensure that
your investment in PowerShell is protected and your migration to PowerShell 7 is simple.

- Separate installation path and executable name
- Separate PSModulePath
- Separate profiles for each version
- Improved module compatibility
- New remoting endpoints
- Group policy support
- Separate Event logs

### Separate installation path and executable name

PowerShell 7 installs to a new directory, enabling side-by-side execution with Windows PowerShell
5.1.

Install locations by version:

- Windows PowerShell 5.1: `C:\Windows\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0`

> - PowerShell Core 6.x: `%programfiles%\PowerShell\6`

Reviewer 3: Would it be better to use PS syntax?  `$env:ProgramFiles`

Reviewer 2: Fixed

- PowerShell 7: `%programfiles%\PowerShell\7`

The new location is added to your PATH allowing you to run both Windows PowerShell 5.1 and
PowerShell 7. If you're migrating from PowerShell Core 6.x to PowerShell 7, PowerShell 6 is removed
and the PATH replaced.

In Windows PowerShell, the PowerShell executable is named `powershell.exe`. In version 6 and above,
the executable is named `pwsh.exe`. The new name makes it easy to support side-by-side execution of
both versions.

### Separate PSModulePath

By default, Windows PowerShell and PowerShell 7 store modules in different locations. PowerShell 7,
combines those locations in the `$Env:PSModulePath` environment variable. When importing a module by
name, PowerShell checks the location specified by `$Env:PSModulePath`. This allows PowerShell 7 to
load both Core and Desktop modules.

| Version |                System-wide location                |           User-specific location            |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| PS 5.1  | `%WINDIR%\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules` | `$HOME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules` |

> | PS 7.0  | `$PSHOME\Modules`                                  | `$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Modules`        |

Reviewer 3: There's also the shared location in ProgramFiles which you already have below, should probably be in this table.

Reviewer 2: Fixed

Azure PowerShell and Active Directory. We're continuing to work with other teams to add native
PowerShell 7 support for more modules including Microsoft Graph, Office 365, and others. For the
current list of supported modules, see
[PowerShell 7 module compatibility](/powershell/scripting/whats-new/module-compatibility).

[!NOTE]
> On Windows, we've also added a **UseWindowsPowerShell** switch to `Import-Module` to ease the
> transition to PowerShell 7 for those using incompatible modules. For more information on this
> functionality, see
> [about_Windows_PowerShell_Compatibility](/powershell/modules/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_windows_powershell_compatibility).

### PowerShell Remoting

PowerShell remoting lets you run any PowerShell command on one or more remote computers. You can
establish persistent connections, start interactive sessions, and run scripts on remote computers.

#### WS-Management remoting

Windows PowerShell 5.1 and below use the `WS-Management` protocol for connection negotiation and
data transport. If remoting has been enabled, installing PowerShell 7 will use the existing
**WinRM** configuration.

> [!NOTE]

> > PowerShell 7 will use the existing Windows PowerShell 5.1 endpoint for remoting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> PowerShell 7 will use the existing Windows PowerShell 5.1 endpoint named `Microsoft.PowerShell`, by default, for remoting
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed

> connections. To update PowerShell 7 to include it own endpoint, run the

> > `Install-PowerShellRemoting.ps1` located in `$PSHOME`. For information about connecting to

Reviewer 3: Recommend folks to use `Enable-PSRemoting` from PS7 instead of running this script.  Also should include an example of remoting to a PS7 endpoint.

Reviewer 2: Fixed

the executable is named `pwsh.exe`. The new name makes it easy to support side-by-side execution of
both versions.

### Separate PSModulePath

By default, Windows PowerShell and PowerShell 7 store modules in different locations. PowerShell 7,
combines those locations in the `$Env:PSModulePath` environment variable. When importing a module by
name, PowerShell checks the location specified by `$Env:PSModulePath`. This allows PowerShell 7 to
load both Core and Desktop modules.

|            Install Scope            |                Windows PowerShell 5.1                 |             PowerShell 7.0             |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| PowerShell modules                  | `$env:WINDIR\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules` | `$PSHOME\Modules`                      |
| User installed<br>AllUsers scope    | `$env:ProgramFiles\WindowsPowerShell\Modules`         | `$env:ProgramFiles\PowerShell\Modules` |
| User installed<br>CurrentUser scope | `$HOME\Documents\WindowsPowerShell\Modules`           | `$HOME\Documents\PowerShell\Modules`   |

> 

Reviewer: This is AWESOME.

Azure PowerShell and Active Directory. We're continuing to work with other teams to add native
PowerShell 7 support for more modules including Microsoft Graph, Office 365, and others. For the
current list of supported modules, see
[PowerShell 7 module compatibility](/powershell/scripting/whats-new/module-compatibility).

[!NOTE]
> On Windows, we've also added a **UseWindowsPowerShell** switch to `Import-Module` to ease the
> transition to PowerShell 7 for those using incompatible modules. For more information on this
> functionality, see
> [about_Windows_PowerShell_Compatibility](/powershell/modules/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_windows_powershell_compatibility).

### PowerShell Remoting

PowerShell remoting lets you run any PowerShell command on one or more remote computers. You can
establish persistent connections, start interactive sessions, and run scripts on remote computers.

#### WS-Management remoting

Windows PowerShell 5.1 and below use the `WS-Management` protocol for connection negotiation and
data transport. If remoting has been enabled, installing PowerShell 7 will use the existing

> **WinRM** configuration.

Reviewer: Still would like to see some mention here that WSMan is the acronym associated with the protocol "WS-Management" and that "WinRM is the Windows implementation of WSMan. I don't think it needs to be all that, my original suggestion was just to add the acronyms in the header, as most folks probably know it as WinRM remoting (e.g. 'gotta turn on WinRM'). 

Technically, the SSH server requires OpenSSH, but it's ubiquitous enough (and it's clear that they're related) that I think it's okay to ignore the distinction on the other side.

- Set the default source path for Update-Help: Sets the source for Updatable Help to a directory,
  not the Internet.

For more information, see
[about_Group_Policy_Settings](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_group_policy_settings).

PowerShell 7 includes Group Policy templates and an installation script in `$PSHOME`.

Group Policy tools use administrative template files (`.admx`, `.adml`) to populate policy settings
in the user interface. This allows administrators to manage registry-based policy settings. The
`InstallPSCorePolicyDefinitions.ps1` script installs PowerShell Core Administrative Templates on the
local machine.

```powershell
Get-ChildItem -Path $PSHOME -Filter *Core*Policy*
```

```Output
    Directory: C:\Program Files\PowerShell\7

Mode                 LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                 -------------         ------ ----
-a---           2/27/2020 12:38 AM          15861 InstallPSCorePolicyDefinitions.ps1
-a---           2/27/2020 12:28 AM           9675 PowerShellCoreExecutionPolicy.adml
-a---           2/27/2020 12:28 AM           6201 PowerShellCoreExecutionPolicy.admx
```

### Separate Event Logs

> PowerShell 7 includes separate event logs for Windows PowerShell and PowerShell Core. Use the

Reviewer: Unless we're actually forwarding the events from Windows PS to the PS7 event logs (which I don't think we are), I think this is more accurate: 

```suggestion
Windows PowerShell and PowerShell 7 log events to separate event logs. Use the
```

following command to get a list of the PowerShell logs.

```powershell
Get-WinEvent -ListLog *PowerShell*
```

For more information, see [about_Logging_Windows](/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_logging_windows).

## Improved editing experience with Visual Studio Code

[Visual Studio Code (VSCode)](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the
[PowerShell Extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/powershell) is the supported
scripting environment for PowerShell 7. The Windows PowerShell Integrated Scripting Environment
(ISE) only supports Windows PowerShell.

The updated PowerShell extension includes:

> - New ISE compatibility module

Reviewer: Is it a module you're referring to here? Or the "mode"? If the latter, probably go with "mode".

```suggestion
- New ISE compatibility mode
```

Install locations by version:

- Windows PowerShell 5.1: `C:\Windows\System32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0`

> - PowerShell Core 6.x: `$Env:programfiles\PowerShell\6`

Reviewer 3: NIT, but the casing should be: $env:ProgramFiles

Reviewer 2: Fixed
